In a networked environment where other users have access the to the 
files and folders it is good practice to implement fine grained file and 
folder permissions. This way it is possible to prevent unwanted users 
from reading, writing modifying and a lot more. The below video is a 
tutorial on how to use Windows 10 file and folder permissions (ACL) and 
is also valid for Windows Server, 8.1 and others.

For more visit http://www.windows10.ninja and http://www.2012r2.com

Transcript (machine generated so it contains errors)

Hello today were gonna have a quick look at file and folder permissions. 
Okay, and the ACLs, which is the access control list and another very 
quick look at it and see how it works okay. Basically we need to get on 
the screen that allows the change permissions on a file or folder. I 
would do it. We click on the file folder, click properties, and then 
there are security and then the advanced okay over a year. If we see 
that folder is basically by clicking over your administrator and then 
you all. This is grayed out. Basically, showing that it is inherited 
permissions. Okay. So how do we do that you to disable inheritance for 
first okay. Now we can add that can now that we have that we can give 
this person full control over at full control. Basically, as in a state 
is read, write, modify, change it eccentric centre. Again, we can only 
apply these permissions to objects are containers within this container. 
So basically it is not going elsewhere. The permissions advanced 
permissions with the full controls given everything basically a few 
things to think about is basically are you able to read attributes the 
special extradition data on files and folders write attributes of a 
delete delete subfolders and files. If you have this checked in contact 
and in this state it still give the person permission to delete the file 
or folder is to make sure those two go together you can remove 
permissions for the user to create folders and data add extra data to 
them the files you create files, write data, you can basically either 
add or remove permissions for a user okay. Click okay, and now this 
person has been given full control. We have also had a look at 
inheritance we might want to look at ownership of files and folders. 
Okay concluded that now. For example, change it to the administrator 
began and others change the owner of the basic owner has full control 
over in the owner basically like the owner of property has all the 
rights and permissions and authority to basically grant permissions to 
other users to remove permissions from other users, so by being the 
owner you are basically in control of that object your file or folder, 
subfolders, et cetera okay, you can add extra users over here, you can 
Fine-Grained the permissions based on the list that I showed you and 
this is ideal in a workplace in a network environment where you are 
basically either prohibit or grant other people access to files and you 
want to fine-tune it. So, for example, you might want to give access to 
people in the IT department to shall we say view the accounts department 
files and data might need to do it for like a security reason or 
whatever or an admin reason, however, you do not want them to change 
anything, so you might disable certain IT users from having access to 
being able to write to certain files. You might also want to block off 
certain folders completely from certain users, so hopefully this helps. 
Thank you for watching